# geo411-Regression
R analysis of regression models for SAT with GPA and mosquitos data. In this exercise I used RStudio to perform regression analysis on multiple datasets to visualize and analyze relationships between variables and to evaluate statistical significance using hypothesis testing. For the SAT-GPA datasets, I used a linear regression model to determine whether SAT scores are a good indicator to predict GPA and found a positive linear relationship. I then performed a hypothesis test on the slope leading to the rejection of the null hypothesis and confirming that SAT score is a statistically significant indicator to predict GPA. 
For the mosquitos dataset, I performed regression analyses to examine the relationship between development sites and pupae counts,a log-log transformation to better understand and visualize the models assumptions. I found that removing outliers changed the estimated slope as a 15.8% difference, and also increased the t-statistic due to a reduced variability leading to a stronger linear relationship. I compared the distributions using histograms generated by R and observed that the transformed data showed a more normal distribution with reduced skewness. In the log-log model, the slope indicated increases in development sites corresponded to increases in pupae, and a second hypothesis test resulted in a rejection of the null hypothesis, confirming that development sites are a statistically significant indicator of pupae in the transformed model. Overall, the SAT model showed a strong and stable predictive relationship, while the mosquitos analysis demonstrated how outliers and small transformations can greatly affect results and its interpretation.
